<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta content="hevea 1.10" name="GENERATOR" />

  <title>The way of the program</title>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  <style type="text/css">
/*<![CDATA[*/

  @page { margin-bottom: 5.000000pt; margin-top: 5.000000pt; }

  span.sgc-1 {font-weight: bold}
  /*]]>*/
  </style>
</head>

<body class="calibre">
  <h2 class="section sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_10"><a class="calibre14" id="toc11"></a><a class="calibre14" id="htoc14"><span class="calibre18">1.8</span></a><span class="calibre18">&nbsp;&nbsp;Exercises</span></h2>

  <div class="theorem">
    <span class="calibre4"><b class="calibre19">Exercise&nbsp;2</b>&nbsp;&nbsp; <em class="calibre9">Use a web browser to go to the Python website <tt class="calibre7">python.org</tt>. This page contains information about Python and links to Python-related pages, and it gives you the ability to search the Python documentation.</em></span>

    <p class="calibre15"><span class="calibre4"><em class="calibre9">For example, if you enter <tt class="calibre7">print</tt> in the search window, the first link that appears is the documentation of the <tt class="calibre7">print</tt> statement. At this point, not all of it will make sense to you, but it is good to know where it is.</em></span></p>

    <p class="calibre15"><a class="calibre16" id="@default99"></a> <a class="calibre16" id="@default100"></a></p>
  </div>

  <div class="theorem">
    <span class="calibre4"><b class="calibre19">Exercise&nbsp;3</b>&nbsp;&nbsp; <em class="calibre9">Start the Python interpreter and type <tt class="calibre7">help()</tt> to start the online help utility. Or you can type <code class="calibre7">help('print')</code> to get information about the <tt class="calibre7">print</tt> statement.</em></span>

    <p class="calibre15"><span class="calibre4"><em class="calibre9">If this example doesn’t work, you may need to install additional Python documentation or set an environment variable; the details depend on your operating system and version of Python.</em></span></p>

    <p class="calibre15"><a class="calibre16" id="@default101"></a></p>
  </div>

  <div class="theorem">
    <span class="calibre4"><b class="calibre19">Exercise&nbsp;4</b>&nbsp;&nbsp; <em class="calibre9">Start the Python interpreter and use it as a calculator. Python’s syntax for math operations is almost the same as standard mathematical notation. For example, the symbols <tt class="calibre7">+</tt>, <tt class="calibre7">-</tt> and <tt class="calibre7">/</tt> denote addition, subtraction and division, as you would expect. The symbol for multiplication is <tt class="calibre7">*</tt>.</em></span>

    <p class="calibre15"><span class="calibre4"><em class="calibre9">If you run a 10 kilometer race in 43 minutes 30 seconds, what is your average time per mile? What is your average speed in miles per hour? (Hint: there are 1.61 kilometers in a mile).</em></span></p>

    <p class="calibre15"><a class="calibre16" id="@default102"></a> <a class="calibre16" id="@default103"></a></p>
  </div>
  <hr class="footnoterule" />

  <dl class="thefootnotes">
    <dt class="dt-description"><a class="calibre3" href="#text1" id="note1"><span class="calibre4">1</span></a></dt>

    <dd class="dd-thefootnotes"><span class="calibre4">This idiom means that someone realized something after a period of confusion.</span></dd>

    <dt class="dt-description"><a class="calibre3" href="#text2" id="note2"><span class="calibre4">2</span></a></dt>

    <dd class="dd-thefootnotes"><span class="calibre4">In Python 3.0, <tt class="calibre7">print</tt> is a function, not a statement, so the syntax is <tt class="calibre7">print(’Hello, World!’)</tt>. We will get to functions soon!</span></dd>

    <dt class="dt-description"><a class="calibre3" href="#text3" id="note3"><span class="calibre4">3</span></a></dt>

    <dd class="dd-thefootnotes"><span class="calibre4">See Reeves and Nass, <i class="calibre9">The Media Equation: How People Treat Computers, Television, and New Media Like Real People and Places</i>.</span></dd>
  </dl>
</body>
</html>
