<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta content="hevea 1.10" name="GENERATOR" />

  <title>The way of the program</title>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  <style type="text/css">
/*<![CDATA[*/

  @page { margin-bottom: 5.000000pt; margin-top: 5.000000pt; }

  span.sgc-1 {font-weight: bold}

  body.sgc-2 {word-wrap: break-word; -webkit-nbsp-mode: space; -webkit-line-break: after-white-space;}
  /*]]>*/
  </style>
</head>

<body class="calibre sgc-2">
  <h2 class="section sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_4"><a class="calibre14" id="toc5"></a><a class="calibre14" id="htoc4"><span class="calibre18">1.2</span></a><span class="calibre18">&nbsp;&nbsp;What is a program?</span></h2>

  <p class="calibre15"><span class="calibre4">A <b class="calibre19">program</b> is a sequence of instructions that specifies how to perform a computation. The computation might be something mathematical, such as solving a system of equations or finding the roots of a polynomial, but it can also be a symbolic computation, such as searching and replacing text in a document or (strangely enough) compiling a program.</span></p>

  <p class="calibre15"><a class="calibre16" id="@default23"></a></p>

  <p class="calibre15"><span class="calibre4">The details look different in different languages, but a few basic instructions appear in just about every language:</span></p>

  <dl class="calibre15">
    <dt class="dt-description"><span class="calibre4 calibre19 sgc-1">input:</span></dt>

    <dd class="dd-description"><span class="calibre4">Get data from the keyboard, a file, or some other device.</span></dd>

    <dt class="dt-description"><span class="calibre4 calibre19 sgc-1">output:</span></dt>

    <dd class="dd-description"><span class="calibre4">Display data on the screen or send data to a file or other device.</span></dd>

    <dt class="dt-description"><span class="calibre4 calibre19 sgc-1">math:</span></dt>

    <dd class="dd-description"><span class="calibre4">Perform basic mathematical operations like addition and multiplication.</span></dd>

    <dt class="dt-description"><span class="calibre4 calibre19 sgc-1">conditional execution:</span></dt>

    <dd class="dd-description"><span class="calibre4">Check for certain conditions and execute the appropriate sequence of statements.</span></dd>

    <dt class="dt-description"><span class="calibre4 calibre19 sgc-1">repetition:</span></dt>

    <dd class="dd-description"><span class="calibre4">Perform some action repeatedly, usually with some variation.</span></dd>
  </dl>

  <p class="calibre15"><span class="calibre4">Believe it or not, that’s pretty much all there is to it. Every program you’ve ever used, no matter how complicated, is made up of instructions that look pretty much like these. So you can think of programming as the process of breaking a large, complex task into smaller and smaller subtasks until the subtasks are simple enough to be performed with one of these basic instructions.</span></p>

  <p class="calibre15"><a class="calibre16" id="@default24"></a></p>

  <p class="calibre15"><span class="calibre4">That may be a little vague, but we will come back to this topic when we talk about <b class="calibre19">algorithms</b>.</span></p>
</body>
</html>
