<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta content="hevea 1.10" name="GENERATOR" />

  <title>Conditionals and recursion</title>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  <style type="text/css">
/*<![CDATA[*/

  @page { margin-bottom: 5.000000pt; margin-top: 5.000000pt; }

  span.sgc-1 {font-weight: bold}
  /*]]>*/
  </style>
</head>

<body class="calibre">
  <p class="calibre15"><a class="calibre16" id="@default409"></a> <a class="calibre16" id="@default410"></a></p>

  <h2 class="section sigilNotInTOC" id="heading_id_14"><a class="calibre14" id="toc62"></a><a class="calibre14" id="htoc69"><span class="calibre18">5.12</span></a><span class="calibre18">&nbsp;&nbsp;Debugging</span></h2>

  <p class="calibre15"><a class="calibre16" id="whitespace"></a> <a class="calibre16" id="@default411"></a> <a class="calibre16" id="@default412"></a></p>

  <p class="calibre15"><span class="calibre4">The traceback Python displays when an error occurs contains a lot of information, but it can be overwhelming, especially when there are many frames on the stack. The most useful parts are usually:</span></p>

  <ul class="calibre6">
    <li class="li-itemize"><span class="calibre4">What kind of error it was, and</span></li>

    <li class="li-itemize"><span class="calibre4">Where it occurred.</span></li>
  </ul>

  <p class="calibre15"><span class="calibre4">Syntax errors are usually easy to find, but there are a few gotchas. Whitespace errors can be tricky because spaces and tabs are invisible and we are used to ignoring them.</span></p>

  <p class="calibre15"><a class="calibre16" id="@default413"></a></p>
  <pre class="verbatim"><span class="calibre20">&gt;&gt;&gt; x = 5
&gt;&gt;&gt;  y = 6
  File "&lt;stdin&gt;", line 1
    y = 6
    ^
SyntaxError: invalid syntax
</span></pre>

  <p class="calibre15"><span class="calibre4">In this example, the problem is that the second line is indented by one space. But the error message points to <tt class="calibre7">y</tt>, which is misleading. In general, error messages indicate where the problem was discovered, but the actual error might be earlier in the code, sometimes on a previous line.</span></p>

  <p class="calibre15"><a class="calibre16" id="@default414"></a> <a class="calibre16" id="@default415"></a></p>

  <p class="calibre15"><span class="calibre4">The same is true of runtime errors. Suppose you are trying to compute a signal-to-noise ratio in decibels. The formula is <i class="calibre9">SNR<sub class="calibre11">db</sub></i> = 10 log<sub class="calibre11">10</sub> (<i class="calibre9">P<sub class="calibre11">signal</sub></i> / <i class="calibre9">P<sub class="calibre11">noise</sub></i>). In Python, you might write something like this:</span></p>
  <pre class="verbatim"><span class="calibre20">import math
signal_power = 9
noise_power = 10
ratio = signal_power / noise_power
decibels = 10 * math.log10(ratio)
print decibels
</span></pre>

  <p class="calibre15"><span class="calibre4">But when you run it, you get an error message</span><sup class="calibre10"><a class="calibre3" href="../Text/Section0059.xhtml#note9" id="text9"><span class="calibre4">2</span></a></sup><span class="calibre4">:</span></p>

  <p class="calibre15"><a class="calibre16" id="@default416"></a> <a class="calibre16" id="@default417"></a></p>
  <pre class="verbatim"><span class="calibre20">Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "snr.py", line 5, in ?
    decibels = 10 * math.log10(ratio)
OverflowError: math range error
</span></pre>

  <p class="calibre15"><span class="calibre4">The error message indicates line 5, but there is nothing wrong with that line. To find the real error, it might be useful to print the value of <tt class="calibre7">ratio</tt>, which turns out to be 0. The problem is in line 4, because dividing two integers does floor division. The solution is to represent signal power and noise power with floating-point values.</span></p>

  <p class="calibre15"><a class="calibre16" id="@default418"></a> <a class="calibre16" id="@default419"></a></p>

  <p class="calibre15"><span class="calibre4">In general, error messages tell you where the problem was discovered, but that is often not where it was caused.</span></p>
</body>
</html>
